>> Steve Kinney: Hello, my name is Steve.
Let's talk about TypeScript.
We're not gonna talk about
TypeScript in one code base,
we're gonna talk about TypeScript
across code bases, right?
Cuz I think there is a getting the value
prop of TypeScript I think at this point,
I'm going to assume that you've
signed up for the newsletter, right?
But there are some additional
problems that come along when
we have to deal with this gnarly
little thing called reality,
which is,
a lot of times we end up with maybe one or
two different kinds of
forms that our code takes.
And each and every one of those
individually, can be type safe and
perfect and everything, not a single
any to be found, everything's great.
The problem is in the middle, right?
There's a lot of trust that happens
that the things you receive from
the other side of the HTTP wall, in a lot
of cases, adheres to the same types.
And particularly when it's in different
code bases, but even in general, right,
there's not a lot of really great ways,
and there's a few we'll obviously
talk about them, that's why we're
spending this time together.
But not a lot of great built in ways
to just make sure that you are actually
getting what you think you are getting,
right?
So, all of that type safety that
you have in your application,
is usually based on a lot of trust, right?
That everything coming over the wire
actually adheres to that type, and
then you work them to those assumptions,
and then you carry on with your merry way.
One of the things we are talking about
today is how to actually take the very
optimistic amount of trust
that you might have, and
turn that into a little bit more
of a pessimistic trust, right?
Where you are a lot more confident that
everything is the way that you think it is
because you trust,
because you have verified,
you trust cuz you have validated.
And so, we're gonna look at some
strategies for keeping all of your
types and all of your data the way that
you think it is across an application.
Cuz it's actually a little bit more
complicated than this as well, right?
It's not just, does the API give you back
what you think you're getting back, right?
Is the client sending payloads
in the way that you think it is?
There's other things involved normally,
right?
Is stuff coming out of the database
the way that you think it is, right?
Is stuff going in the way
that it ought to, right?
And the strategies, luckily,
are roughly the same.
So kind of thinking about all
the different ways that parts of our
application interact with other parts,
right?
And this, again, we're not gonna take this
to its national conclusion, this slide,
but this, again,
is probably a little bit simplistic.
If there are a bunch of microservices,
add another box every microservice, right?
If you've broken other pieces out,
add another box for
every kind of different piece that you've
broken everything into, a lot of that kind
of breaking stuff apart, is really helpful
for us to build scalable large code bases.
But for every problem that we solve,
we introduce a little bit more complexity,
and with that complexity
come a few new problems.
So, we're gonna talk a lot today
about how to solve those problems and
how to basically make sure that your pager
does not go off at 2 in the morning,
like mine has more than once.
So let's kind of look at the core thesis
that we're going to try to solve today in
a new a bunch of different ways,
which is, a lot of times we'll have some,
this is obviously a very
simple like fetch request.
We're just fetching some
data from the API, right?
We've seen it before, call fetch,
make sure the response is okay,
translate into JSON, hope it's JSON,
right, so on and so forth.
And we can have a perfectly
typed client side app, but
we have some problems here,
which is out of the box,
that response to JSON, very quietly.
It's of the type, any, and
any is kind of an interesting one,
because if you have one, any,
it just bypasses everything, right?
Nothing stops it, right?
And so, a lot of times
you'll see in your own code,
you can use something like unknown,
which is assume nothing about this,
I will have to check everything myself.
Any will just pass right through
any type check that you have.
Even if, in this case,
you didn't even type that any,
nobody in your team put that any there,
that was courtesy of the browser or
of the Fetch API, and the types
that come along with that, right?
And so, there are strategies for at least
getting some type annotations around it.
But a lot of those things are flawed.
I can just say, hey, this getTask
is actually gonna return a promise
with a task in it, sounds good, right?
And now, it is what I think it is.
Emphasis on what I think it is, right?
Because I'm just saying,
I could have gotten back
literally anything from the API.
I'm just going to tell TypeScript
that it's what I think it is,
and hope for the best.
And that's useful for
stuff like IntelliSense, but is it
actually giving me any actual safety?
Probably not, it's giving me safety
after I've let it into the house, right?
But I don't actually
know what I let it in.
Cuz again,
it is actually still that promise any, but
we're just saying but pretend it's
a task that comes out of here,
cuz any will pass through anything,
and so, it passes right through.
There's nothing yelling at you saying,
you didn't return a promise
that resolves to a task.
Because the any slides right through it,
but at this point in your client side code
base, you can just pretend and everything
else will adhere, as if it was a task.
The problem being, maybe it isn't,
right, and it is one of
those bugs that will definitely
get you just often enough, cool.
So, obviously the problem
exists on the other side.
So this is like an express route, right,
where we've got a request body and
out of the box, as we can see,
guess what that request body is?
Any, right?
So, effectively, the browser,
the client side code,
is doing a lot of trust that the API is
giving what we think it ought to give.
But on the same side,
the server also exhibiting
an equal amount of trust, right?
That in this case,
it is actually going to be the request
body that we think it is, right?
Again, we have similar strategies
that we can try, right?
We can do all sorts that we kind of do a
bunch of conditionals to see, so on and so
forth.
But again, at the end of the day, there
is a certain amount, anything coming from
the outside world is an unknown, but
it's not even an unknown, isn't any.
So, what we need to do is kind of
understand that kind of the type gap of
where things happen.
And so, here is some very,
very accurate, objective,
data-driven science for you,
in which I sat there and thought about
all the times I have had to go to
a blameless postmortem for an incident.
And this is my very scientific
review of what the cause was.
As you can see, 53% of the time
was the backend team changed
the API without telling us.
The other very scientific 29%,
was somebody upgraded something and
that changed the API
without telling anyone.
And then there's always the one
where someone deleted an S3 bucket.
That's always a thing that can happen too,
we're not gonna cover that one today,
that one you're still on your own for.
But for the 72 percent, no, I don't know,
can't do math, live math, live edition.
We're gonna kind of cover ways and
infrastructure that you can build to make
sure the lion's share of this pie graph of
made up numbers, doesn't happen to you.
This is, again, just my feels across
three or four different jobs.
But this is gonna be a problem that
we try to solve today, which is,
how do we make sure that a change
to the API doesn't break something?
And again,
I like to throw shade at the backend
engineers cuz I'm a frontend engineer,
it goes both ways, right?
And the idea is, we're gonna look at how
to solve for that in both directions.
And also the database, cuz the database is
sometimes the worst offender, which is,
is SQL gonna call that true or false, or
is it gonna call it one and zero, right?
And JavaScript, most of the time, it
doesn't matter because zero is falsy and
one is truthy, but you can imagine a world
where in some way, shape, or form,
it might bite you.
Great, so that's the problem
that we seek to solve and
we're gonna try to close that gap.
I didn't fully introduce the little out
course website where I put up all all my
notes, but it is here.
There is a repo to grab as well,
that has the example out there
we're gonna work on today.
And then the one of the things I wanna
call out is, also just literally all
of my notes, more than we will
ever get to today as well, right?
And so, if there are little kind of
more esoteric things as well, and
you're kind of looking at how to do,
I might have just, they are my notes,
they're up there though.
And then as well as if you want to kind
of double back and look at something
that you heard me say so on and so
forth, it might be in here as well.